in case we've never met before hello my
name is Brock Johnson and it's my job to
help you grow on social media I have a
specialty in Instagram where on
Instagram I've grown by over 500 000
followers in the last two years and I've
helped thousands of our club members
grow as well in fact countless members
of our club have now reached over 100
000 followers and actually one of our
club members has the most viewed reel in
the history of Instagram before we get
into these 12 Advanced real strategies
if you want to know more about joining
our Instagram Club go ahead and visit
the link in the description to get a
special trial offer the first Advanced
real strategy is what I like to call
Trend forecasting as we all know using a
trending audio can be effective on
Instagram but in 2023 and into the
future it seems like using a trending
audio is less effective than it was in
the past and that's true and that's
because Trends are moving a lot faster
people are jumping on these Trends a lot
faster and just the overall
effectiveness or engagement of a popular
sound bite or trending audio is less
effective than in the past it's kind of
lost its luster a little bit but one
reliable way that you can effectively
continue to use these trending audios is
by getting out ahead of the trend
basically being one of the first people
to use the trend oftentimes before it's
even become a trend on Instagram that
way you're out ahead of the wave and
you're able to catch it and ride it and
surf it to Perfection you're able to
maximize all of the videos that come
after you and use them as ways to
increase the views on your own video a
reliable way to Trend forecast and know
what is going to be trending on
Instagram is to look at Tick Tock a good
example of this was recently I was
scrolling through my Tick Tock feed and
I saw the same video come up four times
in a row this was a big clue to me that
this video template was trending on Tick
Tock I quickly made my own version
posted it on Instagram and I got
numerous comments asking is this a new
trend is this what's blowing up is this
what's coming soon it's something that
was already popular on Tick Tock but was
brand new to Instagram and thankfully
Instagram now allows us to import our
own audios that means if you find a
trending audio over on Tick Tock you can
save that video go back to Instagram
open up the audio player and then import
that trending audio from The Tick Tock
video and use it in your own Instagram
reel the second Advanced reels strategy
is to create text posts or tweet posts
or infographics that are reels usually a
reel is a video and actually all reels
are always videos but if you use a
screenshot of a tweet or a text post
that you've made in canva you can upload
that as a video file and use it as a
real now there won't be anything going
on in this video there won't be any
movement so it will look like a photo
but we know it's actually just a video
that's a still image if that makes sense
and this is an effective strategy
because it takes people a little bit of
time to read especially if it's a really
educational post or a great motivational
quote or something that's funny that's a
screenshot of a tweet as people read
through those lines and as they consume
that text the time is ticking and the
amount of time that they're spending
with your reel is increasing it might
even be looping let's say that video
quote unquote is only three or four
seconds long and it takes them six
seconds to read that text well then your
video will effectively play twice it
will Loop and that is a great form of
Engagement which the algorithm will
really prioritize you for receiving the
third Advanced reels strategy is what I
like to call the mini skirt roll and the
mini skirt roll pertains to the length
of your content and it goes as follows
your content should be short enough to
grab people's attention but also long
enough to cover what you need to cover
one of our club members came up with
this rule after watching an advanced
reels live training that we did and I
just think it's so perfect because
everyone's always asking like how long
should your reel be should it be 7
seconds or 90 seconds or 60 seconds and
there is no magic Silver Bullet every
audience is different different every
post is different every account is
different but generally speaking you
want your content to be short enough
that it's holding people's attention
especially when it's something like a
real or a tick tock or a YouTube short
something that is primarily a short form
video it's got to be short enough to
hold their attention but also it needs
to be long enough to cover what you need
to cover you need to make sure that
there's enough time and space for you to
deliver the value that you want to
deliver teach what you want to teach or
captivate in the way that you want to
Captivate the fourth Advanced real
strategy is to use negative hooks Now
using hooks is something that's a
general best practice and a great tip if
you're not already at the beginning of
your reel at the beginning of your video
at the beginning of any of your content
you need to be hooking your audience in
in order to get them to watch the full
thing but using a negative hook has been
shown to Garner more attention that's
the reason that so many news headlines
and so much breaking news that you see
on TV and in newspapers is often
negative and as bad as this may sound
our human psychology draws us we are
naturally paying more attention to
negative things so I like to start my
reels by saying stop and then I'll say
whatever you should stop doing or avoid
doing this or you know cancel this or or
stay away from this by putting out These
Warnings telling people what not to do
what to stop doing what to avoid doing I
am still teaching I'm still educating
I'm still able to share valuable
information with my audience and tell
them what they should do but I'm making
my hook focused on what they shouldn't
do because oftentimes if we're hearing
this negative thing and it's something
that we should avoid something we
shouldn't do some something we should
stay away from and something that we are
doing or that we were thinking about
doing it really grabs our attention that
much more so using a negative hook can
be a great way to grab your audience's
attention the fifth Advanced reels
strategy that I have for you is creating
curiosity within your thumbnail the
thumbnail or the cover as it's known on
Instagram is oftentimes overlooked and
many times people will just scrub
through their video video and find a
random moment and use that to
and use that as the cover for their
profile but as a new potential follower
or a new potential viewer lands on your
profile they need to know why they
should click on a video and if you want
to take it a step further we should
intentionally be making them curious to
click on the video I'm not saying to use
clickbait I'm not saying to use
outlandish things and put things that
don't correlate with the video on the
thumbnail or the cover but we should be
picking the point in the video in which
there's the most curiosity or
potentially asking a question in that
cover image which then would elicit more
clicks for people to view the Reel my
sixth Advanced tip for your Instagram
reels is to use color psychology color
psychology is basically the idea that
different colors elicit different
emotional responses in our reviewers
there's a reason why stop signs are read
why green light means go why often times
when you're on a sales page the button
to actually purchase is green there's a
reason why yellow is the background of
my profile picture because yellow grabs
our attention and I want you to pay
attention when you see my profile
picture so different colors elicit
different emotional responses you can
google and find full lists of what
different colors mean and what they do
subconsciously in our viewers but once
you learn these colors use them
strategically in your reels rather than
just always sticking with your brand
colors which can oftentimes become
boring and mundane seeing the same
colors over and over again be strategic
about the colors you're using put your
calls to action in green so that people
are more likely to do them put your
hooks in red or yellow so they grab
people's attention put your general text
in black or white so that it's more
basic and easy to comprehend and if you
want someone to trust you and if you
want to get an average of 14 more likes
on your content use the color blue my
seventh Advanced reels tip or strategy
is to use Advanced editing use
professional lighting use a professional
grade micro phone this is absolutely not
necessary if you're just getting started
but if you want to take your reels to
the next level hire an editor build
yourself an entire setup I know
YouTubers who spend tens of thousands if
not hundreds of thousands of dollars on
their setups and on Instagram and on
Tick Tock and on YouTube shorts we're
still creating video content so why are
we just recording on our phones of
course like I said if you're just
getting started stick with your phone
that's fine the phone can do a lot but
if you're looking for an advanced
strategy to take your reels to the next
level consider getting a professional
microphone getting some lighting setups
getting a professional camera to film
your content on or even hiring an editor
who can really splice up your content
and make it that much more engaging my
eighth Advanced reels strategy is to
like the comments of your previous post
now stick with me for a second as I
explain this when you get a new comment
on your posts you should I highly
recommend responding asking a follow-up
question having a conversation respond
on right away absolutely but don't
actually like the comment you may or may
not know this but when someone comments
on your Instagram post there's a little
tiny heart on the right hand side of
their comment and that's the like button
which will allow you to like their
comment so like I said when they comment
respond to it engage with them ask them
a follow-up question but do not like it
right away instead what you're going to
do from now on is when you make a new
post on Instagram when you post your
next reel go back to that previous post
and go through and like all of the
comments this will send a little
notification to any person who left a
comment and it will increase the odds
that they click on and visit your
profile additionally it will signal to
the algorithm that there is some sort of
a relationship here and there's some
sort of interaction going on which will
increase the odds that the algorithm
will show your new post to that person
who commented and of course the person
who commented is already a very engaged
follower so they're already very likely
to see your new post this is just giving
them that extra a nudge to make sure
they do my ninth Advanced reels strategy
also has to do with the comments section
and it's replying to comments with a
reel you may not know that this feature
even exists but when someone comments on
your reel if you tap the reply button
you'll see that on the left hand side of
the type bar where you would type in
your reply message on the left hand side
of that there's a little tiny blue photo
icon it's a little icon of a camera and
if you tap on that it will open up the
reels camera and you'll be able to
record a reel with that comment as a
sticker on the Reel so you can basically
use this for Q a for answering questions
to responding to Common comments to
responding to haters or trolls to
answering something that may be a point
of confusion for your followers and not
only is it a great way and an easy way
to come up with content for your reels
it's also a great way to show your
audience that you value their comments
that you read their comments and that
their comments matter my 10th advance
reels strategy is to use what I like to
call a double CTA a CTA also known as a
call to action is something that you
should be using on every single one of
your posts it's essentially telling your
audience what you want them to do your
calls to action need to be simple and
direct the more simple and easy to
perform they are the more likely people
are to do them in fact here's an example
right now if you've watched this video
so far I really appreciate it and I hope
that you've learned something new if you
have press the thumbs up button down
below this video right now I'll give you
three seconds
three two one okay you press the Thumbs
Up Button we're gonna continue that was
a call to action it was simple it was
clear it was concise I didn't ask people
to write a letter to their local
representative I didn't ask people to
jump on their left foot and and sing the
ABCs backwards I asked you something
very simple and easy to do just click on
that Thumbs Up Button similarly when
you're posting your reels you should
always include a call to action that's
simple and easy to understand but this
Advanced real strategy is to include a
double a second call to action not just
in your caption or in your content but
both I usually say that the content is
the best place for the call to action
because that's where most people are
going to see it the majority of people
who see your post are only going to
watch the actual video and not read the
actual caption so if you can only put
one call to action for whatever reason
put it in your content put it in the
actual video in the actual reel but what
I'm saying right now this Advanced
strategy is to use two one in the real
and one in the caption maybe even do a
triple CTA by putting one at the top of
the caption a few paragraphs of
education and background story whatever
your caption may be and then a third
call to action at the bottom of your
caption my 11th Advanced reels strategy
is pinning your own comment pinning your
own comment is a relatively new feature
on Instagram of course you've been able
to pin other people's comments for a
while but recently they began allowing
users to pin their own comments this is
a great way to get people's eyeballs
into the comments section to get them
spending more time with your posts and
to get them to engage or start some kind
of dialogue or just comment themselves
so my tip for you is to encourage people
to read your pinned comment whether
that's reading it for background story
an important note or disclaimer maybe
you're offering some extra tips or
tutorials or ideas or inspiration there
has to be some sort of value some reason
for someone to read your pinned comment
but once you're there and you give them
that call to action to be there to read
the pinned comment it can be a great way
to inspire more action more comments and
more sense of community in your
Instagram posts my 12th and final
Advanced real strategy is to create your
reels with a specific purpose in mind
and this might sound basic but this is
something that I think a lot of people
Overlook first of all we need to
understand that not every single reel is
going to elicit the same amount of
Engagement or even the same type of
Engagement from people there are some
reels that are going to get a lot of
likes let's think what is something that
would get a lot of likes usually it's
something that's pretty something that's
maybe uh you know a celebration an
achievement it's usually something
that's maybe about you maybe it's
something that's funny but if it's
getting mostly likes and it's getting a
lot of likes it's usually going to fall
into one of those categories that's very
different than something that's getting
a lot of saves let's think about a reel
that's just like hey here's my cute
outfit of the day that reel is likely
going to get a lot of likes because it's
a cute outfit but unless you're giving
tips for what that outfit is or the
different style elements or you're
giving the different pieces of that
outfit it's probably not going to get a
lot of saves through that example I
think you could figure out what's
something that would get a lot of saves
it's something that's educational
valuable something that gives some tips
or some background or some knowledge
that people might want to refer to in
the future so again different reels are
going to generate different kinds of
Engagement and a simple way to think
about this is how do you engage with
different kinds of reels what kind of
reels are you sharing what kinds of
reels are you commenting on what kinds
of reels are you saving screen shotting
liking sending to your friends and then
once you think about that create reels
for specific kinds of Engagement it's
unlikely that someone who follows you is
going to save every single thing you
post so you shouldn't make posts where
every single post is save worthy or is
likely going to generate a lot of saves
you should mix it up so that some of
your posts are going to generate a lot
of likes some of them are going to
generate a lot of saves some might
generate of shares or comments but
creating reels with specific end goals
in mind and specific kinds of Engagement
in mind is a great way to ensure that
kind of Engagement keep your audience
excited and engaged and to overall grow
your account thank you so much for
watching today and again if you learned
something new don't forget to press that
Thumbs Up Button And subscribe for more
content just like this